Supercar Plus - History

The Supercar Plus project is the continued development of a land vehicle script originally
written by Shin Ingen for a race track application in Opensim in 2014. He decided not to
continue development and published the assets as open source, which is when this project
picked it up. Much of the underlying code has changed since then but the overall framework
is based on the original work. This project also redistributes by permission some of the
original assets for the iTec race car effects.

For the last few years I have been the custodian of a large collection (~70) scripted land
vehicles at Burn2 in Second Life, the official Burning Man regional event in Second Life.
I provide scripting kits and workshops for people building new cars. During Burn2 events,
server lag is always a concern, where sometimes many vehicles are being used concurrently
in a sim full of other scripted art and avatars. 

Vehicles in the collection had scripts of varying sources and quality, some laggy, some
poorly written. Many didn't have desired features. We wanted one vehicle script that could
merge the best features of all of the scripts, fix the bugs, and be low lag as possible
for the server. We also wanted a way to install updates into the entire collection with
minimal hassle, ideally without having to hand-transfer settings between scripts.

The new fork of the Supercar script was developed to satisfy these requirements. Since the
script was originally developed for compatibility across Opensim and SL, I was able to
maintain this compatibility through its development.

The first step was to convert all the cars to a common script and place all the
user-definable settings in a single block at the top of the script. Features were also
vetted for usefulness and effects on server lag. The result was the initial release of the
script.

In 2017 I added a feature to put all configuration settings in a notecard. The script
checks to see if the Config notecard is present, and if so it will use configs in the
notecard at reset time and ignore settings within the script itself. This way, updates can
be made by deleting the old script, and dropping in the new script, without having to
hand-edit any settings.

Many features and bug fixes have been added since then based on what was needed or
requested by builders. Feature usefulness and effects on server lag continue to be
monitored. I continually try to find ways to simplify the script, to keep it compatible
across grids, and to add new features wanted by car builders. This is a work in progress.
Please notify me of bugs or feature requests.

Cuga Rajal (Second Life and OSGrid)
cugarajal@gmail.com
Opensim: http://rajal.org:9000

https://github.com/cuga-rajal/supercar_plus/



